docs/creating_new_project.rst, before:

.. _create_new_project:

Creating a new MarineMap project
=================================

.. note::

   Though lingcod includes several example projects, you are encouraged to 
   create your MarineMap instance as a seperate python package outside of the 
   lingcod source tree. This will allow for clear seperation between the underlying
   libraries (lingcod) and your implementation of MarineMap (the "project")


Install Dependencies
---------------------

You will need to install lingcod's dependencies and lingcod itself. For detailed instructions, please follow :ref:`Getting Started <getting_started>`.

Create new django project
--------------------------

In this example, we'll set up a new MarineMap instance for the state of Oregon. We use django-admin.py to create a standard django project:: 

    cd /usr/local/src
    mkdir oregon_project
    cd oregon_project
    django-admin.py startproject oregon
    cd oregon

You should see the following directory structure::

    oregon
    |-- __init__.py
    |-- manage.py
    |-- settings.py
    `-- urls.py

We now need to configure the settings and urls for our oregon project.

Settings
--------

First, while we appreciate django-admin's attempt at an initial settings.py file, it doesn't really work for us in this case. Because lingcod contains sensible default settings, we only need to worry about settings specific to this project. 

Delete everything in settings *except* for the SECRET_KEY and add the following to the ``settings.py`` file::

    # Django settings for oregon project.
    from lingcod.common.default_settings import *
    SECRET_KEY = '--' # Keep the one generated by django admin!

    BASE_DIR = os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__))
    TIME_ZONE = 'America/Vancouver'
    ROOT_URLCONF = 'oregon.urls'

    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.contrib.gis.db.backends.postgis',
            'NAME': 'oregon',
            'USER': 'postgres',
        }
    }

    INSTALLED_APPS += ( 'omm', )

    from settings_local import *

Notice the final two lines; First we install an app called 'omm' that will hold the project specific models, views and templates. We haven't yet created that app yet (that's the next step).

Secondly, we import a file called ``settings_local.py`` which we'll also need to create. This can be any settings specific to your local machine (such as your Google Earth API Key, database connections, custom paths, log settings, etc). For now we can just create an empty file::

    touch settings_local.py

Creating Features and FeatureCollections
----------------------------------------

Lingcod is designed without any hardcoded feature types (though we do provide plenty of examples!). `Features` are the entities that users can create, edit, share and analyze. Each type of feature can be customized with it's own attributes, it's own behavior and it's own relationships with other features. `FeatureCollections` are a special type of Feature that allows you to organize Features into logical sets or even nested hierarchies; they are analagous to directories in your operating system except that you can define their behavior and their relationships with other features. 

Let's start with a simple example. Let's say we want to develop a collaborative system for creating, sharing and analyzing Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). We also want to be able to put these MPAs into Folders to keep things organized. 


First, let's create the app to hold our custom features::

    python manage.py startapp omm
    
Here we should see the following directory structure created for us::

    omm
    |-- __init__.py
    |-- models.py
    |-- tests.py
    `-- views.py

We can ignore the tests and views for now; for now we'll focus on creating the Mpa and Folder models. Open ``omm/models.py`` and add::

    from lingcod.features.models import PolygonFeature, FeatureCollection
    from lingcod.features import register

    @register
    class Mpa(PolygonFeature):
        class Options:
            form = 'oregon.omm.forms.MpaForm'

Next create a file to hold the forms called ``forms.py``::

    from lingcod.features.forms import FeatureForm, SpatialFeatureForm
    from omm.models import Mpa, Folder

    class MpaForm(SpatialFeatureForm):
        class Meta(SpatialFeatureForm.Meta):
            model = Mpa

The above is a barebones MPA feature inherited from the ``PolygonFeature`` base class. All the basic attributes are included by default. A form for creating and editing Mpas is also provided; again inheriting from a ``SpatialFeatureForm`` base class so the default behavior takes only a few lines of code. The only additional information required is the Options class with a form property specifying the full python path to the associated Form (mandatory). Finally the @register decorator at the top of the class is required to register the Mpa feature class with lingcod. 

Similarly, we could group Mpas into collections; let's call them "Folders" for now. We can inherit from the base ``FeatureCollection`` and specify the mandatory ``valid_children`` Option to configure which feature types can be placed in a folder.

So, adding to ``models.py``::

    @register
    class Folder(FeatureCollection):
        class Options:
            form = 'oregon.omm.forms.FolderForm'
            valid_children = (
                'oregon.omm.models.Mpa', 
                'oregon.omm.models.Folder', 
            )

and adding to ``forms.py``::
 
    class FolderForm(FeatureForm):
        class Meta(FeatureForm.Meta):
            model = Folder

This is all that is necessary to begin managing MPA features and organizing them into Folders. With a few lines of code, we've defined the features and aspects of our application's behavior. One of our goals is to make the customization and configuration of lingcod as easy as possible - and its almost entirely driven by the model configurations you see above. There are few other things you need to do in order to get a fully functional application. 

Urls
----

In order for django to successfully route requests, we need to define URL patterns for the common lingcod operations. Lingcod provides a set of default urls so in most cases you'll just modify your urls.py to show the following::

    from django.conf.urls.defaults import *
    from django.contrib import admin
    admin.autodiscover()

    urlpatterns = patterns('',
        # Include all lingcod app urls. Any urls above will overwrite the common urls below
        (r'', include('lingcod.common.urls')),
    )


Databases
----------

Next we'll create a new postgis-enabled database for this project and use django's syncdb command to create the necessary tables. Assuming you installed postgis functions, etc into your postgres template1, this is as simple as::

    createdb oregon -U postgres

It is recommended, though not required, to set up a :ref:`study region<studyregion>`. At a minimum, you'll need to decide on a spatial reference system to store your geographic data.  For the case of oregon, let's say we have data in UTM Zone 10N, WGS84 datum which corresponds to the SRID 32610 (see http://www.spatialreference.org/ref/epsg/32610/). This is also the projection we want to use for storing our 
shapes so we'll add this to our ``settings.py``::

    GEOMETRY_DB_SRID = 32610

Finally, we'll create the necessary tables in the database::

    python manage.py syncdb
    python manage.py migrate

Static Media
------------
All static media is split between the project media and the lingcod media. 

The project media goes in a 'media' directory at the same level as your project directory. So let's create the media directory::

  cd oregon_project
  mkdir media
  
Project media and lingcod media get combined into a single directory. Let's create that directory now::

  cd /var/www/
  mkdir oregon_media
  cd /usr/local/src/oregon_project/oregon

Point MEDIA_ROOT to this directory in our ``settings_local.py`` file::

    MEDIA_ROOT = '/var/www/oregon_media'

The install_media command will then take all files from lingcod media and oregon media directories and combine them into this directory. It is safe to assume that when you deploy marinemap you'll want this directory to be fully web accessible::

    python manage.py install_media 

This step also compresses all js and css using the django-compress app to ensure that your js and css are single compact files to maximize performance (when not running in DEBUG mode). 

Deployment for Testing
----------------------

For now, we'll just test our new project using django's built-in development server. First we need to set up the sites framework so that our domain is accurate
for any absolute urls created by our MarineMap project. Then run the dev server to test it::

    python manage.py enable_sharing
    python manage.py site_setup_for_dev
    python manage.py runserver

Our Oregon MarineMap project should now be accessible at http://localhost:8000/ ...

.. image:: http://marinemap.googlecode.com/hg/media/common/images/mpa_demo.png?r=2.0-cms


Next steps
----------
MarineMap has fixtures containing test data that is installed on database 
setup like an example :ref:`Study Region <studyregion>` and :ref:`layers`. This makes
it easy to verify the installation and learn how the tool works. For use in an 
actual planning session these default datasets will need to be replaced.

While the above shows a minimal bare-bones project, it's not a very interesting example. From here we might want to expand on the configuration of our features a bit, adding manipulators, attributes, verbose name, and custom links to the Options::

    @register
    class Mpa(PolygonFeature):
        designation = models.CharField()
        class Options:
            verbose_name = 'Marine Protected Area'
            form = 'oregon.omm.models.MpaForm'
            manipulators = [ 'lingcod.manipulators.manipulators.ClipToStudyRegion' ]
            optional_manipulators = [ 'lingcod.manipulators.manipulators.ClipToGraticuleManipulator' ]
            links = (
                related('Habitat Spreadsheet',
                    'oregon.omm.views.habitat_spreadsheet',
                    select='single',
                    type='application/xls'
                ),
            )

.. note::
    
    The above `Mpa` feature has a custom link for a Habitat Spreadsheet; the oregon.omm.views.habitat_spreadsheet view would need to be written for this to function properly. For more info see documentation on Creating Link Views TODO.

See the documentation in the following sections to customize MarineMap as 
needed:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   
   features
   studyregion
   deployment
   layers
   managing_users
   manipulators
   staticmap
   sharing_configuration
   kml_configuration
   template_customization
   
The setup this guide has walked through only specifies how to run the django
development server. To setup a public facing website using Apache, consult the
:ref:`deployment` notes.

Commit message:

Documented the no-underscore requirement for app and feature class names. Also added docs for migrations.
--HG--
branch : 2.0-cms

docs/creating_new_project.rst, after:

.. _create_new_project:

Creating a new MarineMap project
=================================

.. note::

   Though lingcod includes several example projects, you are encouraged to 
   create your MarineMap instance as a seperate python package outside of the 
   lingcod source tree. This will allow for clear seperation between the underlying
   libraries (lingcod) and your implementation of MarineMap (the "project")


Install Dependencies
---------------------

You will need to install lingcod's dependencies and lingcod itself. For detailed instructions, please follow :ref:`Getting Started <getting_started>`.

Create new django project
--------------------------

In this example, we'll set up a new MarineMap instance for the state of Oregon. We use django-admin.py to create a standard django project:: 

    cd /usr/local/src
    mkdir oregon_project
    cd oregon_project
    django-admin.py startproject oregon
    cd oregon

You should see the following directory structure::

    oregon
    |-- __init__.py
    |-- manage.py
    |-- settings.py
    `-- urls.py

We now need to configure the settings and urls for our oregon project.

Settings
--------

First, while we appreciate django-admin's attempt at an initial settings.py file, it doesn't really work for us in this case. Because lingcod contains sensible default settings, we only need to worry about settings specific to this project. 

Delete everything in settings *except* for the SECRET_KEY and add the following to the ``settings.py`` file::

    # Django settings for oregon project.
    from lingcod.common.default_settings import *
    SECRET_KEY = '--' # Keep the one generated by django admin!

    BASE_DIR = os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__))
    TIME_ZONE = 'America/Vancouver'
    ROOT_URLCONF = 'oregon.urls'

    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.contrib.gis.db.backends.postgis',
            'NAME': 'oregon',
            'USER': 'postgres',
        }
    }

    INSTALLED_APPS += ( 'omm', )

    from settings_local import *

Notice the final two lines; First we install an app called 'omm' that will hold the project specific models, views and templates. We haven't yet created that app yet (that's the next step).

Secondly, we import a file called ``settings_local.py`` which we'll also need to create. This can be any settings specific to your local machine (such as your Google Earth API Key, database connections, custom paths, log settings, etc). For now we can just create an empty file::

    touch settings_local.py

Creating Features and FeatureCollections
----------------------------------------

Lingcod is designed without any hardcoded feature types (though we do provide plenty of examples!). `Features` are the entities that users can create, edit, share and analyze. Each type of feature can be customized with it's own attributes, it's own behavior and it's own relationships with other features. `FeatureCollections` are a special type of Feature that allows you to organize Features into logical sets or even nested hierarchies; they are analagous to directories in your operating system except that you can define their behavior and their relationships with other features. 

Let's start with a simple example. Let's say we want to develop a collaborative system for creating, sharing and analyzing Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). We also want to be able to put these MPAs into Folders to keep things organized. 


First, let's create the app to hold our custom features::

    python manage.py startapp omm
    
.. note::

   Don't use underscores _ in your app name; Underscores are used as a delimiter for certain internal naming conventions so using them in the app name will lead to errors. 

Here we should see the following directory structure created for us::

    omm
    |-- __init__.py
    |-- models.py
    |-- tests.py
    `-- views.py

We can ignore the tests and views for now; for now we'll focus on creating the Mpa and Folder models. Open ``omm/models.py`` and add::

    from lingcod.features.models import PolygonFeature, FeatureCollection
    from lingcod.features import register

    @register
    class Mpa(PolygonFeature):
        class Options:
            form = 'oregon.omm.forms.MpaForm'

.. note::

   The python convention is to name your model classes using CapsCase. Just don't use underscores _ in the feature class name.

Next create a file to hold the forms called ``forms.py``::

    from lingcod.features.forms import FeatureForm, SpatialFeatureForm
    from omm.models import Mpa, Folder

    class MpaForm(SpatialFeatureForm):
        class Meta(SpatialFeatureForm.Meta):
            model = Mpa

The above is a barebones MPA feature inherited from the ``PolygonFeature`` base class. All the basic attributes are included by default. A form for creating and editing Mpas is also provided; again inheriting from a ``SpatialFeatureForm`` base class so the default behavior takes only a few lines of code. The only additional information required is the Options class with a form property specifying the full python path to the associated Form (mandatory). Finally the @register decorator at the top of the class is required to register the Mpa feature class with lingcod. 

Similarly, we could group Mpas into collections; let's call them "Folders" for now. We can inherit from the base ``FeatureCollection`` and specify the mandatory ``valid_children`` Option to configure which feature types can be placed in a folder.

So, adding to ``models.py``::

    @register
    class Folder(FeatureCollection):
        class Options:
            form = 'oregon.omm.forms.FolderForm'
            valid_children = (
                'oregon.omm.models.Mpa', 
                'oregon.omm.models.Folder', 
            )

and adding to ``forms.py``::
 
    class FolderForm(FeatureForm):
        class Meta(FeatureForm.Meta):
            model = Folder

This is all that is necessary to begin managing MPA features and organizing them into Folders. With a few lines of code, we've defined the features and aspects of our application's behavior. One of our goals is to make the customization and configuration of lingcod as easy as possible - and its almost entirely driven by the model configurations you see above. There are few other things you need to do in order to get a fully functional application. 

Urls
----

In order for django to successfully route requests, we need to define URL patterns for the common lingcod operations. Lingcod provides a set of default urls so in most cases you'll just modify your urls.py to show the following::

    from django.conf.urls.defaults import *
    from django.contrib import admin
    admin.autodiscover()

    urlpatterns = patterns('',
        # Include all lingcod app urls. Any urls above will overwrite the common urls below
        (r'', include('lingcod.common.urls')),
    )


Databases
----------

Next we'll create a new postgis-enabled database for this project and use django's syncdb command to create the necessary tables. Assuming you installed postgis functions, etc into your postgres template1, this is as simple as::

    createdb oregon -U postgres

It is recommended, though not required, to set up a :ref:`study region<studyregion>`. At a minimum, you'll need to decide on a spatial reference system to store your geographic data.  For the case of oregon, let's say we have data in UTM Zone 10N, WGS84 datum which corresponds to the SRID 32610 (see http://www.spatialreference.org/ref/epsg/32610/). This is also the projection we want to use for storing our 
shapes so we'll add this to our ``settings.py``::

    GEOMETRY_DB_SRID = 32610

Finally, we'll create the necessary tables in the database::

    python manage.py syncdb
    python manage.py migrate

Static Media
------------
All static media is split between the project media and the lingcod media. 

The project media goes in a 'media' directory at the same level as your project directory. So let's create the media directory::

  cd oregon_project
  mkdir media
  
Project media and lingcod media get combined into a single directory. Let's create that directory now::

  cd /var/www/
  mkdir oregon_media
  cd /usr/local/src/oregon_project/oregon

Point MEDIA_ROOT to this directory in our ``settings_local.py`` file::

    MEDIA_ROOT = '/var/www/oregon_media'

The install_media command will then take all files from lingcod media and oregon media directories and combine them into this directory. It is safe to assume that when you deploy marinemap you'll want this directory to be fully web accessible::

    python manage.py install_media 

This step also compresses all js and css using the django-compress app to ensure that your js and css are single compact files to maximize performance (when not running in DEBUG mode). 

Deployment for Testing
----------------------

For now, we'll just test our new project using django's built-in development server. First we need to set up the sites framework so that our domain is accurate
for any absolute urls created by our MarineMap project. Then run the dev server to test it::

    python manage.py enable_sharing
    python manage.py site_setup_for_dev
    python manage.py runserver

Our Oregon MarineMap project should now be accessible at http://localhost:8000/ ...

.. image:: http://marinemap.googlecode.com/hg/media/common/images/mpa_demo.png?r=2.0-cms


Next steps
----------
MarineMap has fixtures containing test data that is installed on database 
setup like an example :ref:`Study Region <studyregion>` and :ref:`layers`. This makes
it easy to verify the installation and learn how the tool works. For use in an 
actual planning session these default datasets will need to be replaced.

While the above shows a minimal bare-bones project, it's not a very interesting example. From here we might want to expand on the configuration of our features a bit, adding manipulators, attributes, verbose name, and custom links to the Options::

    @register
    class Mpa(PolygonFeature):
        designation = models.CharField()
        class Options:
            verbose_name = 'Marine Protected Area'
            form = 'oregon.omm.models.MpaForm'
            manipulators = [ 'lingcod.manipulators.manipulators.ClipToStudyRegion' ]
            optional_manipulators = [ 'lingcod.manipulators.manipulators.ClipToGraticuleManipulator' ]
            links = (
                related('Habitat Spreadsheet',
                    'oregon.omm.views.habitat_spreadsheet',
                    select='single',
                    type='application/xls'
                ),
            )

.. note::
    
    The above `Mpa` feature has a custom link for a Habitat Spreadsheet; the oregon.omm.views.habitat_spreadsheet view would need to be written for this to function properly. For more info see documentation on Creating Link Views TODO.

See the documentation in the following sections to customize MarineMap as 
needed:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   
   features
   studyregion
   deployment
   layers
   managing_users
   migration
   manipulators
   staticmap
   sharing_configuration
   kml_configuration
   template_customization
   
The setup this guide has walked through only specifies how to run the django
development server. To setup a public facing website using Apache, consult the
:ref:`deployment` notes.
