docs/getting_started.rst, before:

.. _getting_started:

Getting Started
===============
These instructions will walk you through developing a basic implementation of
MarineMap. This includes installing from the development repository, setting
up a sample app, testing that everything installed smoothly, then doing some
basic customization. By the end you'll have an application that will perform
all the `basic functions <http://code.google.com/p/marinemap/wiki/FeaturesAndRequirements>`_ 
needed to start drawing MPAs on a map.

.. _dependencies:

Dependencies
************
You need the following installed on your system in order to start running
MarineMap.

    * A working installation of `GeoDjango <http://geodjango.org>`_
    * `django-compress <http://code.google.com/p/django-compress/>`_ (requires CSSTidy, look @ the 1.2 release for binaries)
    * `elementtree <http://effbot.org/zone/element-index.htm>`_
    * `django-maintenancemode <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-maintenancemode>`_
    * `sphinx <http://sphinx.pocoo.org/>`_ is used for generating documentation
    * `mapnik <http://mapnik.org/>`_ generates static maps for reports
    * `feedvalidator <http://www.feedvalidator.org/docs/howto/install_and_run.html>`_ for testing KML
    * `beautiful soup 3.0 <http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/>`_ is necessary for running tests. Be sure you have version >= 3.0
    * `xlwt <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/xlwt/>`_ for handling Excel spreadsheets
    * `django-registration <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-registration>`_ provides the user account managment and registration (Version 0.8+ is required - v0.7 wont work so don't use easy_install! Use `0.8alpha1 <http://bitbucket.org/ubernostrum/django-registration/downloads/django-registration-0.8-alpha-1.tar.gz>`_ instead.)
    
.. note::
    MarineMap development tends to follow django trunk. It may work on the 
    point releases but it's safer to just start from source.

In addition, you should be familiar with programming in Python, how web 
application are structured in `Django <http://djangoproject.com>`_, and using 
a `Subversion <http://subversion.tigris.org/>`_ client.

Installation
************
First you will need to checkout a copy of trunk from the `project page <http://code.google.com/p/marinemap/source/checkout>`_. 
Next you'll need to add some MarineMap modules to your site-packages 
directory. This way all the appropriate modules will automatically be in your
python path. Rather than physically moving them there, you can instead create 
a symlink. On Linux or OS X, you can use the following command to find your
site-packages directory::

    python -c "from distutils.sysconfig import get_python_lib; print get_python_lib()"
    
Once you have that directory, create the symlink::
    
    ln -s `pwd`/marinemap-trunk/lingcod SITE-PACKAGES-DIR/lingcod

Test that you can now import modules without throwing an exception. Go into a
shell such as ipython and type the following::

    from lingcod import layers
    
Using the Sample App
********************

Inside the example-projects/ directory there are sample applications built
using the MarineMap components. These serve as useful documentation as well as
practical tests. We'll be starting up ``example-projects/simple`` here.

using settings.py and settings_local.py
---------------------------------------

Take a look at ``example-projects/simple/settings_local.template`` and 
``settings.py``. MarineMap uses a simple splitsetting scheme as described 
`here <http://code.djangoproject.com/wiki/SplitSettings#Multiplesettingfilesimportingfromeachother>`_. What this enables is the ability to specify standard 
settings in settings.py and commit them to a public repository, but these
don't correspond to any particular machine. You then create a 
settings_local.py file on the machine for deployment or development from the
template, and it contains your passwords and such.

Lets do that now. Copy settings_local.template to settings_local.py, then
uncomment the following line::

    # SECRET_KEY = '6c(kr8r%aqf#r8%arr=0py_7t9m)wgocwyp5g@!j7eb0erm(2+sdklj23'

Alter ``SECRET_Key`` to make it unique. Next uncomment and alter the following
lines as needed to allow this application to connect to your local database::

    # DATABASE_NAME = 'simple_example'
    # DATABASE_USER = 'postgres'
    # DATABASE_PASSWORD = 'my-secret-password'
    
Grab a `Google Maps API key <http://code.google.com/apis/maps/signup.html>`_ and put it into the proper setting (not needed for localhost)::

    GOOGLE_API_KEY = 'ABQIAAAAbEBR9v0lqBFdTfOcbe5WjRSwtTT5GAxiJqzQ69gC1VuJs9XrFRSHtkp9BFyAR6_lVVfY3MBP3uA7Mg'

setup the database
------------------

Create a database accessible by the connection settings above using a tool
like `pgAdmin <http://www.pgadmin.org/>`_. It is very important that this
database be created from a template with all the PostGIS functions installed. One approach
is to set up postgis in the default postgres template::

   #run as postgres superuser
   POSTGIS_SQL_PATH=`pg_config --sharedir`/contrib
   createlang -d template1 plpgsql # Adding PLPGSQL language support.
   psql -d template1 -f $POSTGIS_SQL_PATH/postgis.sql # Loading the PostGIS SQL routines
   psql -d template1 -f $POSTGIS_SQL_PATH/spatial_ref_sys.sql
   psql -d template1 -c "GRANT ALL ON geometry_columns TO PUBLIC;" # Enabling users to alter spatial tables.
   psql -d template1 -c "GRANT ALL ON spatial_ref_sys TO PUBLIC;"

Once the template is spatially enabled, to setup the database schema all you'll need to do is run the 
django syncdb command from within the ``example-projects/simple`` directory::

    python manage.py syncdb
    
.. note::
    
    If syncdb fails and you get an error related to importing settings.py 
    failing, you are likely missing a python dependency. Double-check 
    :ref:`the dependencies <dependencies>`, and if none are missing jump into a python shell from
    ``example-projects/simple``, ``import settings``, and look for any errors.

verify and run the dev server
-----------------------------

Confirm that everything is working as expected by running the tests::
    
    python manage.py test
    
.. note::

    Django creates a test database that is different than the database specified 
    in ``settings_local.py``. Depending on your database setup, PostGIS 
    functions may not be added to this new database and cause errors at this
    step related to the geometry columns. See the guide to using :ref:`django_test_database_and_postgis`.
    
    
If everything looks good, turn on the dev server::
    
    python manage.py runserver
    
Hit http://localhost:8000/admin/ in a browser and use the authentication
credentials specified when syncdb was run.

At http://localhost:8000/ the interface should render with sample data.

Next Steps
**********

MarineMap has fixtures containing test data that is installed on database 
setup like an example :ref:`Study Region <study_region>` and :ref:`layers`. This makes
it easy to verify the installation and learn how the tool works. For use in an 
actual planning session these default datasets will need to be replaced.

See the documentation in the following sections to customize MarineMap as 
needed:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   
   study_region
   layers
   managing_users
   waves
   marine_protected_areas
   static_map_configuration
   sharing_configuration
   kml_configuration
   
The setup this guide has walked through only specifies how to run the django
development server. To setup a public facing website using Apache, consult the
:ref:`deployment` notes.

Commit message:

Docs for creating a standalone marinemap instance outside of the lingcod source tree
--HG--
extra : convert_revision : svn%3A23a7edcc-78fa-46f5-8c17-2ede83e4f0cd/trunk%401294

docs/getting_started.rst, after:

.. _getting_started:

Getting Started
===============
These instructions will walk you through developing a basic implementation of
MarineMap. This includes installing from the development repository, setting
up a sample app, testing that everything installed smoothly, then doing some
basic customization. By the end you'll have an application that will perform
all the `basic functions <http://code.google.com/p/marinemap/wiki/FeaturesAndRequirements>`_ 
needed to start drawing MPAs on a map.

.. _dependencies:

Dependencies
************
You need the following installed on your system in order to start running
MarineMap.

    * A working installation of `GeoDjango <http://geodjango.org>`_
    * `django-compress <http://code.google.com/p/django-compress/>`_ (requires CSSTidy, look @ the 1.2 release for binaries)
    * `elementtree <http://effbot.org/zone/element-index.htm>`_
    * `django-maintenancemode <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-maintenancemode>`_
    * `sphinx <http://sphinx.pocoo.org/>`_ is used for generating documentation
    * `mapnik <http://mapnik.org/>`_ generates static maps for reports
    * `feedvalidator <http://www.feedvalidator.org/docs/howto/install_and_run.html>`_ for testing KML
    * `beautiful soup 3.0 <http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/>`_ is necessary for running tests. Be sure you have version >= 3.0
    * `xlwt <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/xlwt/>`_ for handling Excel spreadsheets
    * `django-registration <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-registration>`_ provides the user account managment and registration (Version 0.8+ is required - v0.7 wont work so don't use easy_install! Use `0.8alpha1 <http://bitbucket.org/ubernostrum/django-registration/downloads/django-registration-0.8-alpha-1.tar.gz>`_ instead.)
    
.. note::
    MarineMap development tends to follow django trunk. It may work on the 
    point releases but it's safer to just start from source.

In addition, you should be familiar with programming in Python, how web 
application are structured in `Django <http://djangoproject.com>`_, and using 
a `Subversion <http://subversion.tigris.org/>`_ client.

Installation
************
First you will need to checkout a copy of trunk from the `project page <http://code.google.com/p/marinemap/source/checkout>`_. 
Next you'll need to add some MarineMap modules to your site-packages 
directory. This way all the appropriate modules will automatically be in your
python path. Rather than physically moving them there, you can instead create 
a symlink. On Linux or OS X, you can use the following command to find your
site-packages directory::

    python -c "from distutils.sysconfig import get_python_lib; print get_python_lib()"
    
Once you have that directory, create the symlink::
    
    ln -s `pwd`/marinemap-trunk/lingcod SITE-PACKAGES-DIR/lingcod

Test that you can now import modules without throwing an exception. Go into a
shell such as ipython and type the following::

    from lingcod import layers
    
Using the Sample App
********************

Inside the example-projects/ directory there are sample applications built
using the MarineMap components. These serve as useful documentation as well as
practical tests. We'll be starting up ``example-projects/simple`` here.

using settings.py and settings_local.py
---------------------------------------

Take a look at ``example-projects/simple/settings_local.template`` and 
``settings.py``. MarineMap uses a simple splitsetting scheme as described 
`here <http://code.djangoproject.com/wiki/SplitSettings#Multiplesettingfilesimportingfromeachother>`_. What this enables is the ability to specify standard 
settings in settings.py and commit them to a public repository, but these
don't correspond to any particular machine. You then create a 
settings_local.py file on the machine for deployment or development from the
template, and it contains your passwords and such.

Lets do that now. Copy settings_local.template to settings_local.py, then
uncomment the following line::

    # SECRET_KEY = '6c(kr8r%aqf#r8%arr=0py_7t9m)wgocwyp5g@!j7eb0erm(2+sdklj23'

Alter ``SECRET_Key`` to make it unique. Next uncomment and alter the following
lines as needed to allow this application to connect to your local database::

    # DATABASE_NAME = 'simple_example'
    # DATABASE_USER = 'postgres'
    # DATABASE_PASSWORD = 'my-secret-password'
    
Grab a `Google Maps API key <http://code.google.com/apis/maps/signup.html>`_ and put it into the proper setting (not needed for localhost)::

    GOOGLE_API_KEY = 'ABQIAAAAbEBR9v0lqBFdTfOcbe5WjRSwtTT5GAxiJqzQ69gC1VuJs9XrFRSHtkp9BFyAR6_lVVfY3MBP3uA7Mg'

setup the database
------------------

Create a database accessible by the connection settings above using a tool
like `pgAdmin <http://www.pgadmin.org/>`_. It is very important that this
database be created from a template with all the PostGIS functions installed. One approach
is to set up postgis in the default postgres template::

   #run as postgres superuser
   POSTGIS_SQL_PATH=`pg_config --sharedir`/contrib
   createlang -d template1 plpgsql # Adding PLPGSQL language support.
   psql -d template1 -f $POSTGIS_SQL_PATH/postgis.sql # Loading the PostGIS SQL routines
   psql -d template1 -f $POSTGIS_SQL_PATH/spatial_ref_sys.sql
   psql -d template1 -c "GRANT ALL ON geometry_columns TO PUBLIC;" # Enabling users to alter spatial tables.
   psql -d template1 -c "GRANT ALL ON spatial_ref_sys TO PUBLIC;"

Once the template is spatially enabled, to setup the database schema all you'll need to do is run the 
django syncdb command from within the ``example-projects/simple`` directory::

    python manage.py syncdb
    
.. note::
    
    If syncdb fails and you get an error related to importing settings.py 
    failing, you are likely missing a python dependency. Double-check 
    :ref:`the dependencies <dependencies>`, and if none are missing jump into a python shell from
    ``example-projects/simple``, ``import settings``, and look for any errors.

verify and run the dev server
-----------------------------

Confirm that everything is working as expected by running the tests::
    
    python manage.py test
    
.. note::

    Django creates a test database that is different than the database specified 
    in ``settings_local.py``. Depending on your database setup, PostGIS 
    functions may not be added to this new database and cause errors at this
    step related to the geometry columns. See the guide to using :ref:`django_test_database_and_postgis`.
    
    
If everything looks good, turn on the dev server::
    
    python manage.py runserver
    
Hit http://localhost:8000/admin/ in a browser and use the authentication
credentials specified when syncdb was run.

At http://localhost:8000/ the interface should render with sample data.

Next Steps
**********
Now that you have installed lingcod and tested it out using the pre-built example project, 
You'll want to visit :ref:`Creating a New Project<create_new_project>` to find out how to 
build your own customized MarineMap instance.
