docs/raster_stats.rst, before:

.. _raster_stats:

Raster Statistics App
=======================
The `lingcod.raster_stats` app allows you to analyze raster datasets based on a polygon geometry. For example, for a given polygon, you may want to know the average elevation or the maximum temperature, etc. Essentially this performs a vector-on-raster intersection. 

The app uses an optional caching mechanism so that any geometry/raster combination only needs to be run once. 

The raster_stats app provides a model to register raster datasets, a utility function to quickly calculate stats programatically and a webservice which returns the statistics in json format.

Installation
------------
The raster_stats app relies on the `starspan` executable. This C++ app must be installed from src and it's a pain. The end. 

http://projects.atlas.ca.gov/frs/download.php/667/starspan-1.2.03.tar.gz

Settings
--------
optionally set the `STARSPAN_BIN` setting to point to your starspan executable.

Then just add to your installed apps::

    INSTALLED_APPS += ( 'lingcod.raster_stats' )

Adding a Raster
---------------
Simple as it gets. Type can be continuous(eg elevation surface) or categorical(eg land use categories)::
    
    from lingcod.raster_stats.models import RasterDataset
    rast = RasterDataset.objects.create(name="test_impact",filepath='/tmp/data/impact.tif',type='continuous')  

Running zonal stats
-------------------
Use the utility function which will first check the cache. If nothing is in the cache, the full starspan analysis is run. Otherwise the cache hit is returned::

    from lingcod.raster_stats.models import zonal_stats
    stats = zonal_stats(geos_polygon_geom, rast)
    stats.from_cache # False
    
    stats = zonal_stats(geos_polygon_geom, rast)
    stats.from_cache # True
    stats.min 
    stats.max
    stats.median
    stats.mode
    stats.nulls
    stats.pixels
    stats.avg
    stats.stdev

Using the web service
---------------------
The app provides a urls.py file; just point your main URLCONF file to it::

    (r'^zonal/', include('lingcod.raster_stats.urls')),

You can get a json list of the rasters at this url::

	http://localhost/zonal/

And you can append the raster name and supply a `geom_txt` parameter (either wkt or json) which returns the rasters stats as json::

	http://localhost/zonal/sst/?geom_txt=POLYGON ((-122.735420504497029 37.238868044757552,-122.516579972608298 37.245550198403009,-122.50822728055148 37.043415050627928,-122.730408889262932 37.046756127450656,-122.735420504497029 37.238868044757552))

	[
         {"pk": 764, "model": "raster_stats.zonalstatscache", 
          "fields": {"raster": 23, "min": 0.0, "max": 1.5440739999999999, "geom_hash": "-8107990604081680573", 
                     "nulls": 0.0, "median": 0.28777199999999997, "mode": 0.0, "stdev": 0.44484400000000002, 
                     "date_modified": "2010-06-23 19:00:30", "avg": 0.40776400000000002, "pixels": 531.0}
         }
        ]

Commit message:

Added rasterdir to raster_stats settings and documented

docs/raster_stats.rst, after:

.. _raster_stats:

Raster Statistics App
=======================
The `lingcod.raster_stats` app allows you to analyze raster datasets based on a polygon geometry. For example, for a given polygon, you may want to know the average elevation or the maximum temperature, etc. Essentially this performs a vector-on-raster intersection. 

The app uses an optional caching mechanism so that any geometry/raster combination only needs to be run once. 

The raster_stats app provides a model to register raster datasets, a utility function to quickly calculate stats programatically and a webservice which returns the statistics in json format.

Installation
------------
The raster_stats app relies on the `starspan` executable. This C++ app must be installed from src and it's a pain. The end. 

http://projects.atlas.ca.gov/frs/download.php/667/starspan-1.2.03.tar.gz

Settings
--------
optionally set the `STARSPAN_BIN` setting to point to your starspan executable and the `RASTER_DIR` setting for the filepath to the directory containing your raster files.

Then just add to your installed apps::

    INSTALLED_APPS += ( 'lingcod.raster_stats' )

Adding a Raster
---------------
Simple as it gets. Type can be continuous(eg elevation surface) or categorical(eg land use categories)::
    
    from lingcod.raster_stats.models import RasterDataset
    rast = RasterDataset.objects.create(name="test_impact",filepath='/tmp/data/impact.tif',type='continuous')  

Running zonal stats
-------------------
Use the utility function which will first check the cache. If nothing is in the cache, the full starspan analysis is run. Otherwise the cache hit is returned::

    from lingcod.raster_stats.models import zonal_stats
    stats = zonal_stats(geos_polygon_geom, rast)
    stats.from_cache # False
    
    stats = zonal_stats(geos_polygon_geom, rast)
    stats.from_cache # True
    stats.min 
    stats.max
    stats.median
    stats.mode
    stats.nulls
    stats.pixels
    stats.avg
    stats.stdev

Using the web service
---------------------
The app provides a urls.py file; just point your main URLCONF file to it::

    (r'^zonal/', include('lingcod.raster_stats.urls')),

You can get a json list of the rasters at this url::

	http://localhost/zonal/

And you can append the raster name and supply a `geom_txt` parameter (either wkt or json) which returns the rasters stats as json::

	http://localhost/zonal/sst/?geom_txt=POLYGON ((-122.735420504497029 37.238868044757552,-122.516579972608298 37.245550198403009,-122.50822728055148 37.043415050627928,-122.730408889262932 37.046756127450656,-122.735420504497029 37.238868044757552))

	[
         {"pk": 764, "model": "raster_stats.zonalstatscache", 
          "fields": {"raster": 23, "min": 0.0, "max": 1.5440739999999999, "geom_hash": "-8107990604081680573", 
                     "nulls": 0.0, "median": 0.28777199999999997, "mode": 0.0, "stdev": 0.44484400000000002, 
                     "date_modified": "2010-06-23 19:00:30", "avg": 0.40776400000000002, "pixels": 531.0}
         }
        ]
